---
date: "2017-07-28"
title: "Office 365 & PowerShell: Jacking Into the Matrix"
---

One thing became apparent very quickly during my recent foray into [Office
365](http://aka.ms/o365): it truly is one bit amalgam of bunch of Microsoft
Products. Just like their on-premises counterparts, each of these products has
their own PowerShell interface for management.

Almost every module in the courseware for the “[Enabling and Managing Office
365](https://www.microsoft.com/en-nz/learning/course.aspx?cid=20347)” course
includes a “this is the thing you need to download” and/or “these are the
PowerShell commands you need to run to connect.

I can only hope that one day Microsoft manages to create a unified installer
that can install the various components in one go, but for now this is what we
have.

This post will serve as some documentation, just as much as myself as for others
out there, on the various bits that need to be installed and the specific
commands to run. My next post will explore putting together a script that will
connect you to “all the things” all at once.

I’ll be using the tenant name `example.onmicrosoft.com` throughout, so remember
to supplement your own.

### Office 365

Text

### Exchange Online

Text

### Skype for Business Online

Text

### SharePoint Online

Text

### When in doubt, you probably need Exchange

Several services without their own connection methods require you to open a
session to Exchange Online, so chances are that will be your first port of call
if you’re unsure.

Keep an eye out for my next post where we’ll wrap these disparate connection
methods up into one function, for those times where you don’t want to think
about it and just want to get connected quickly.
