---
date: "2018-04-10 21:00:00"
title: "Day Two of #PSHSummit 2018 - Getting Smart"
---

No comments about the plumbing or anything today, having gotten over the initial
shock. If you missed yesterday’s recap, please do [check it
out](https://king.geek.nz/2018/04/10/summit2018-day1/)!

As a reminder, I’m doing these posts daily during the night after the days’
sessions. These posts are being done using hand written notes and whatever
memory I can spare so please do forgive any glaring errors!

Today’s mission was to get the office copy of [Windows PowerShell
TFM](https://www.amazon.com/Windows-PowerShell-v1-0-TFM-2nd/dp/0977659763)
signed. Mission complete:

\_Pic: Signed TFM\_

### Be the Master

[Don Jones](https://twitter.com/concentrateddon)

This was a side session, so there wasn’t any AV in the room and it was a more
conversational type atmosphere. I’ve already read [Be the
Master](https://leanpub.com/bethemaster), and have been keeping up on the
additions coming in the second edition as well as testing out the “The Grind”
workbook.

If you haven’t read it, grab a copy. It’s a good read ([I finished it in one
sitting](https://twitter.com/WindosNZ/status/968404127452561408).)

In short, the book is advocating for reintroducing the Master/Apprentice type
relationships for passing on knowledge (specifically in IT, but the really any
industry could benefit.)

It also tries to instill the idea that you don’t need to be an expert in
something to start teaching. There is something you know that someone else
doesn’t. Someone taught you something for nothing and now you have an unpaid
debt/obligation to pass something onto the next person, and so on.

I picked up a physical copy of the book while I was there too, complete with
signature:

\_Pic: Be the Master, signed\_

**DSC vs. "The Others" - A Song of Configuration Management**

[Missy Januszko](https://twitter.com/majst32)

Missy knows her some DSC, she [wrote the
book](https://leanpub.com/the-dsc-book). This talk, however, explored Chef and
Puppet then looked at how those offerings compared. It wasn’t the type of thing
where at the end we were told “this is the product you should use!”

Rather, it was an exploration of the basics of each and the hurdles Missy faced
when learning each of them.

### Title

Text

### Title

Text

### Title

Text

### Title

Text
